url: http://www.matasano.com/articles/crypto-challenges/

Matasano Security

Matasano Security, LLC

  * Contact
  * Careers

  * Home
  * About
  * Services
  * Research

You Should Do The Matasano Crypto Challenges

We've built a collection of 48 exercises that demonstrate attacks on real-world
crypto.

This is a different way to learn about crypto than taking a class or reading a
book. We give you problems to solve. They're derived from weaknesses in
real-world systems and modern cryptographic constructions. We give you enough
info to learn about the underlying crypto concepts yourself. When you're
finished, you'll not only have learned a good deal about how cryptosystems are
built, but you'll also understand how they're attacked.

How does this work?

You mail cryptopals at matasano.com. Just say you want in.

Wait, what?

Yes: you actually compose an email.

And then what happens?

We send challenges, 8 at a time. You send results. We send more.

There's no grading. We probably won't run your code (we'll definitely read it
though). You can ask us for help; we'll try our best.

If you make it through all six sets, we'll try to make a $20 donation to Watsi
or Partners in Health for you. Both are very cool and you should check them
out. But also, do the challenges because they're neat.

What are the rules?

Just one: please don't share what we send you, or your answers. This process
doesn't work if you can just grab code off Github to solve your problems. In
fact, we've had to make some of our challenges slightly less realistic to keep
that from happening. If you don't think you can do this without posting the
challenges or your answers, please wait for us to publish them sometime in the
future.

How much math do I need to know?

If you have any trouble with the math in these problems, you should be able to
find a local 9th grader to help you out. It turns out that many modern crypto
attacks don't involve much hard math.

How much crypto do I need to know?

None. That's the point.

So what do I need to know?

You'll want to be able to code proficiently in any language. We've received
submissions in C, C++, Python, Ruby, Perl, Visual Basic, X86 Assembly, Haskell,
and Lisp. Surprise us with another language. Our friend Maciej says these
challenges are a good way to learn a new language, so maybe now's the time to
pick up Clojure or Rust.

What should I expect?

Right now, we have six sets. They get progressively harder. Again: these are
based off real-world vulnerabilities. None of them are "puzzles". They're not
designed to trip you up. Some of the attacks are clever, though, and if you're
not familiar with crypto cleverness... well, you should like solving puzzles.
An appreciation for early-90's MTV hip-hop can't hurt either.

Can you give us a long-winded indulgent description for why you've chosen to do
this?

It turns out that we can.

If you're not that familiar with crypto already, or if your familiarty comes
mostly from things like Applied Cryptography, this fact may surprise you: most
crypto is fatally broken. The systems we're relying on today that aren't known
to be fatally broken are in a state of just waiting to be fatally broken.
Nobody is sure that TLS 1.2 or SSH 2 or OTR are going to remain safe as
designed.

The current state of crypto software security is similar to the state of
software security in the 1990s. Specifically: until around 1995, it was not
common knowledge that software built by humans might have trouble counting. As
a result, nobody could size a buffer properly, and humanity incurred billions
of dollars in cleanup after a decade and a half of emergency fixes for memory
corruption vulnerabilities.

Counting is not a hard problem. But cryptography is. There are just a few
things you can screw up to get the size of a buffer wrong. There are tens,
probably hundreds, of obscure little things you can do to take a cryptosystem
that should be secure even against an adversary with more CPU cores than there
are atoms in the solar system, and make it solveable with a Perl script and 15
seconds. Don't take our word for it: do the challenges and you'll see.

People "know" this already, but they don't really know it in their gut, and we
think the reason for that is that very few people actually know how to
implement the best-known attacks. So, mail us, and we'll give you a tour of
them.

That's it?

Also if you can breeze through these we'd probably love to try to hire you. But
don't worry: we're not recruiters and we're not jerks. (Incidentally, if you're
interested in the kind of work we do, don't wait to get through the challenges
to contact us.)

    Other stuff...

  * This is who we are
  * This is what we do
  * Here's some of our work
  * Here is a cat eating a taco
  * Here is a great crypto blog
  * And another

  *
      + Home
      + About
      + Services
      + Research
      + Contact
      + Careers
  * ? 2013 Matasano Security. All Rights Reserved.

